# 2014-Fall

## 1a

### Define data structure. Explain the different operations to be performed on data structure.

## 1b

### Write an algorithm to convert the infix expression to postfix expression using stack implementation. Evaluate the following expression ABC/-DE*F-* (Where A=6,B=5,C=2,D=3,E=4 and F=1)

## 2a

### Write an algorithm to insert an item in circular queue in array implementation. Write assumptions you need?

## 2b

### Define list. Describe merits of linked list over contiguous list. Write an algorithm to insert an item in a static list.

## 3a

### Differentiate between singly linked list and doubly linked list. write an algorithm for push and pop operations on stack using linked list.

## 3b

### Construct a binary tree from the following inorder and preorder sequence.
### Preorder: F A E K C D H G B
### Inorder: E A C K F H D B G

## 4a

### Write an algorithm to build an Huffman Tree. Construct a Huffman tree for the following data item and frequency

|Data item|A|B|C|D|E|F|G|H|
|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|
|Frequency|22|5|11|19|2|11|25|5|

## 4b

### Sort the following data by heap sort method
### 40,32,75,20,65,42,88

## 5a

### Define Selection sort. Trace Quick sort algorithm for the data:
### 25,57,48,37,12,92,86,33

## 5b

### Search using Binary search Technique
### 75,151,203,275,318,489,524,591,647,727. Search 275 and 727

## 6a

### Define greedy algorithm. Find minimum spanning tree for the given graph using Kruskal's algorithm.
//TODO graph

## 6b

### Define graph traversal. Differentiate between DFS and BFS with suitable eample.

## 7a, Big O notation

## 7b, Recursion Vs Iteration

## 7c, Hash Functions and hash tables