# 2015-Fall

## 1a

### Differentaite ADT and C++ class. Write an ADT for natural numbers.

## 1b

### Trace the algorithm to convert postfix expression with the following infix expression ((A+B)-C*D/E)$*(H-I)*F+G
### Evaluate postfix expression obtain from above with the following values for A=4,B=2,C=4,D=3,E=8,F=2,G=3,H=5 and I=1

`**Converting given infix expression into postfix expression**`

|Read|Stack|Output List|
|--|--|--|
|‘(‘|(||
|‘(‘|((||
|‘A’|((|A|
|‘+’|((+|A|
|‘B’|((+|AB|
|‘)’|(|AB+|
|‘-’|(-|AB+|
|‘C’|(-|AB+C|
|‘ * ’|(-*|AB+C|
|‘D’|(-*|AB+CD|
|‘/’|(-/|AB+CD*|
|‘E’|(-/|AB+CD*E|
|‘)’||AB+CD*E/-|
|‘$’|$|AB+CD*E/-|
|‘(’|$(|AB+CD*E/-|
|‘H’|$(|AB+CD*E/-H|
|‘-’|$(-|AB+CD*E/-H|
|‘I’|$(-|AB+CD*E/-HI|
|‘)’|$|AB+CD*E/-HI-|
|‘ * ’| * |AB+CD*E/-HI-$|
|‘F’| * |AB+CD*E/-HI-$F|
|‘+’|+|AB+CD*E/-HI-$F*|
|‘G’|+|AB+CD*E/-HI-$F*G|
|||AB+CD*E/-HI-$F*G+|

`**Evaluating the obtained postfix expression**`

|Read |Operation |Stack|
|--|--|--|
|A=4| |4|
|B=2| |4,2|
|+| 4+2| 6|
|C=4| |6,4|
|D=3| |6,4,3|
|*| 4*3=12| 6,12|
|E=8| |6,12,8|
|/| 12/8=1.5| 6,1.5|
|-| 6-1.5=4.5| 4.5|
|H=5| |4.5,5|
|I=1| |4.5,5,1|
|-| 5-1=4| 4.5,4|
|*| 4.5*4=18| 18|
|F=2| |18,2|
|*| 18*2| 36|
|G=3| |36,3|
|+| 36+3=39| 39|



## 2a

### What are the difference between stack and queue? Write enqueue and dequeue algorithm of circular queue.

## 2b

### What is doubly linked list (DLL) and Circular Linked List (CLL)? Represent the following polynomial equation using singly linked list. P(x,y,z) = 3x^3^yz-5x^2^y^3^+5x^2^y^3^+8y^2^x^2^z-4xy^7^z^3^+2x^7^yz

## 3a

### State advantage of linked list over contiguous list. Write the steps involved in deleting an item in a contigous list.

## 3b

### How the representation of data in memory is cheaper using linked list than in array? Write an algorithm to search an element and insert a node at the specific posiotion in a single linked list.

## 4a

### What is tree traversing? Explain preorder, inorder and postorder tree traversal by constructing expression tree of the given expression: b*b-4*a*c

## 4b

### How does the Huffman algorithm work? Explain with a complete example.

## 5a

### Sort the following data using merge-sort algorithm. 66,33,40,22,55,88,60,11,80,20,50,44,77.

## 5b

### What is hashing. Explain in detail about the techinque used for collision resolution.

## 6a

### Define graph and diagraph? Let G be the graph represented by this adjacently list.

|Vertex|Adjacent list|
|--|--|
|A|F|
|B|C|
|C|B|
|D|A,B|
|E|C,D|
|F|E|

### i, Draw G.
### ii, Is G a directed graph?
### iii, Is G weekly connected?
### iv, GIve the adjacency matrix for G?

## 6b

### Define graph, connected graph and spanning tree. Perform the topological sort from the following graph.
//TODO graph

## 7a, Game Tree

## 7b, Recursion vs Iteration

## 7c, Big O notation